TODO

extract a list of item candidates from my cheatsheet (including from other TODOs and new candidates below)

write a full "per item" chapter, as a candidate/template. ok if not perfect/final
	candidates for 1st: parallelization; caching; stat-not-dyn; memoization

script to generate all artifacts (like book epub/mobi, and cheatsheet pdf)

structured "book source" text format. eg. Markdown. or ad hoc via Python?

add to "per item" in outline: how item relates to other items (eg. memoization is a special case of more general case of caching; and a well-cached dynamic app site becomes increasingly a more de facto static site); maybe use an optional item code/abbrev for the ref wiring

------------

New Item Candidates

elastic microservices arch for greater scalability, resiliency

uniform distribution of tasks across a regular time window where possible (eg. say you have 100 servers which must be rebooted one per day (and a server reboot takes typically max of 2 minutes), you don’t reboot them all at the same moment, but spread them out evenly so never more than 1 server rebooting at any point during any 24 hour window) NOTE this is very close to existing #94 and 93

random jigging/jittering of attempt tries to avoid stampedes

assembly. inline ASM (like in C)

add some cloud, NN, ML and "data science" specific items to candidate list, where distinction warrants

TODO some in my notes on phone?

speculative branch prediction (similar to 17 Precompute Predicted Requests)

probable bets (needs work; flesh out or drop this)

Bayesian inference

multi-modem or multi-ISP or multi-NIC or multi-route requests or downloading (blast multiple redundant requests in parallel down different pipes and see which one wins; or divide a requested large file into smaller pieces and fetch each in parallel from a separate path then reassemble on client's end once have all)

dedicated physical network routes (ie. what Google and Amazon likely do between their data centers)

mass coordination by clients/users to self-distribute target addresses and request times in a balance way (redund?)

JIT bytecode optimizations

in GUI, not rerender to pixels any faster than the display refresh cycle

in 3D UIs, view-model culling

image compression (to reduce bandwidth, boost throughput, reduce disk space footprint). add audio and video (similar to 34 Compression of Large Transfer Payloads; related to 102)

at runtime drop value checking guards (think asserts and null guards) to boost speed, if wont cause problems, or tradeoff on elavated error rate is acceptable

disable GC (I believe already have "tune GC" in my list)

log output reducing (eg. via quieter levels) or total disabling/muting

log writes to faster write-turnaround target (even if ephemeral like memory)

no alloc function calls (so caller can reuse pre-allocated memory slabs, to reduce latency and better control lifecycle of memory objects) (maybe redund/overlap with existing "object pools" item)

ensure no memory gets paged out to disk (via OS-wide disabling, or, by having the app workoad be very careful?) {related to 42 Tuning OS Params)

faked not real (eg. mocked-up screen flows in a demo, not working code yet)

that neat technique Carmack once tweeted about? (IIRC)

smaller IC chips (very speculative and may drop this; TBD cuz on one hand I see why latencies within-chip could be faster however may also be other physics/materials effects at that tiny scale which disrupt or push back in opposite direction)
